Now to use group transitions, I'll add a new horizontal line here and then I want to output an unordered list,
I'll add the list group class which just gives this some nice bootstrap styling
and then my list item with the list group item class here, again just to have a nice style being applied
to it, like this.
So this is my list item and now I also need some data,
I will set up a simple array of numbers here because it's not really about the data, it's about the
animations which shall be the number is 1, 3, 4, 5 let's say
and I want to loop through them of course, so I will add v-for and loop through my number in numbers, like this
and the output the number here with string interpolation.
Having a look at this, we see this list down there, looks great
and as we know it, now I want to add a way to add and delete items and then as a last step, we want to
animate this.
Now let's add a way to add and delete items first,
here I will simply add a new button, button button primary which will get the add item caption and then
upon clicking, I want to execute addItem, a method I have yet to add. And on the individual item, I want
to add a click listener so that when I click on an item, I execute removeItem. Now for remove
item, I need to know which item and to be able to know, I will adjust this code a bit, bringing it over multiple
lines too
so that this is easier to read and I will get more arguments than just one,
we learned this, we can always retrieve the index of the current iteration like this
and then I can pass this index like this to know which items shall be removed.
Now I get these two methods
I don't have set up right now,
so let's set them up next to make this work, though before doing so, I will add some style here to make
the cursor a pointer, so that when we hover over them, we can see that we actually can click them or should
be able to click them.
Now let's add the two methods here,
the two methods are addItem which doesn't take an argument and then removeItem which has the index
of the item as an argument.
Now removing is very simple,
I simply get my numbers array,
this is the property I set up here in my data which is just an array and then with the splice method, I
can edit this existing array to remove item, for example and I want to remove an item at the index and
then only one item to remove just the item at this index.
This is how I remove an item
and we can already see this in action, if I now click on an item, it's gone.
And then for adding an item, I went to randomize this,
so I want to get a position which I'll determine randomly with math.floor to get a full integer and
then math.random
which gives me a random number between 0 and .9999
and this multiplied with the current length of my array will give me together with math.floor some number
between 0 and the highest indexes of the last item in this array, which is exactly what I want to have
a position to add it at.
And then I can simply use the splice method here too because it can not only be used for removing elements
but instead I want to start splicing at the position here, don't remove any element which is why I pass
0 as the second argument
but then splice also has a third argument which allows me to add a new element to this array at this position
then. So here I want to add this.numbers.length plus 1,
this is important so that I don't add a number which are currently as part of the array.
Now we can see this in action by simply starting to add here and you see these numbers like the 7 here
are added in random places,
nice.
The last thing is I want to add a horizontal line after some breaks, after the button here so that we
do have a nice separation here, some distance in between
and now I want to animate both the addition and deletion of items.
This is what I'll work on next.